README.md, before:

# A Viewer for idol Branch-And-Bound Trees

This is a python script to convert `csv` exports of the [idol C++ library](https://github.com/hlefebvr/idol) into `.dot` files.
This allows to visualize the exploration tree of a branch-and-bound algorithm after its execution.

## Themes

### Degradation

![degradation theme](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hlefebvr/idol-tree-dot/main/degradation.demo.png)

### Minimal

![minimal theme](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hlefebvr/idol-tree-dot/main/minimal.demo.png)

## How to generate the csv file

The csv file is generated by adding the `Utils::ExportBranchAndBoundTreeToCSV` callback to idol's `BranchAndBound` optimizer.

```cpp
model.use(
        BranchAndBound()
                .with_node_optimizer(HiGHS::ContinuousRelaxation())
                .with_branching_rule(PseudoCost())
                .with_callback(Utils::ExportBranchAndBoundTreeToCSV("tree.csv")) // Here
                .with_callback(Heuristics::SimpleRounding())
                .with_node_selection_rule(BestEstimate())
                .with_log_level(Info, Blue)
                .with_log_frequency(1)
);
```

## How to use

```shell
python3 src/main.py --path path/to/csv/file [--theme degradation] [--output custom_filename.dot]
```

Commit message:

add description for degradation theme

README.md, after:

# A Viewer for idol Branch-And-Bound Trees

This is a python script to convert `csv` exports of the [idol C++ library](https://github.com/hlefebvr/idol) into `.dot` files.
This allows to visualize the exploration tree of a branch-and-bound algorithm after its execution.

## Themes

### Degradation

This theme adds color to nodes depending on their value.

- From blue to green: relative distance from the root node relaxation to the best feasible point.
- From green to red: relative distance from the best known feasible point to the worst ever node found.

![degradation theme](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hlefebvr/idol-tree-dot/main/degradation.demo.png)

### Minimal

![minimal theme](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hlefebvr/idol-tree-dot/main/minimal.demo.png)

## How to generate the csv file

The csv file is generated by adding the `Utils::ExportBranchAndBoundTreeToCSV` callback to idol's `BranchAndBound` optimizer.

```cpp
model.use(
        BranchAndBound()
                .with_node_optimizer(HiGHS::ContinuousRelaxation())
                .with_branching_rule(PseudoCost())
                .with_callback(Utils::ExportBranchAndBoundTreeToCSV("tree.csv")) // Here
                .with_callback(Heuristics::SimpleRounding())
                .with_node_selection_rule(BestEstimate())
                .with_log_level(Info, Blue)
                .with_log_frequency(1)
);
```

## How to use

```shell
python3 src/main.py --path path/to/csv/file [--theme degradation] [--output custom_filename.dot]
```
